# 1.1 Problems with the so-called cloud
## 1.1.1 What is a cloud?
Today in many professions we are dependent on tools that work in the [[0.2 Glossary of Terms#cloud|cloud]]. This becomes especially true when we work in teams. We have to write collaboratively, share files, conduct video calls and invite each other to calendar events. What might have seemed alomost impossible a few decades ago, has become so simple that it has become almost invisible: Right click, share, send, and it's done.

What a lot of us are not always aware of is that this seemless experience is enabled by an expansive network of digital and physical infrastructure that runs around the clock for our convenience. Or, in more simple temrs: For us to collaborate in the cloud, somewhere in the world there is a very fancy, and very fast computer that mediates between us. Usually these computers are located in the vast data centers around the world that are run by a small number of hard- and software conglomerates and which in recent years have come to contribute a significant part to the world's energy usage. 

## 1.1.2 Why is that a problem?
As mentioned above, this infrastructure is incredibly expensive from an energy usage/environmental point of view. Even though many data centers around the world are run with 100% renewable energies, these capacities could have been used to power other parts of our infrastructure that still runs on fossiles.
As mentioned above, most of the cloud is run by large corporations like Amazon or Google. Companies with a history of.....

Monopolies, labor laws, financing political right wing project, evading taxes, erroding unions, global south worker exploitation
Plus: privacy (why allow a company like google to know everything about us)
plus: government surveillance

Many cloud services make us addicted on purpose

Do we agree with those things ethically?

But also: do we want to be dependent.
- Can you write online?
- Doi you have to pay monthly?
	- software as service is ransom money
- What happens if you lose your data? None of them have customer services
- What if they gte hacked
- What if elon musk or someone else buys the company and changes the rules?
- Where is your data then? The infrastructure of your group?

Dependencies/offline writing/trusting companies/software as a service

software as a service
ethical values of company
software as a service is ransom money

## 1.1.3 Some notes on expense
As mentioned above, running services in the cloud is computationally expensive. All data is constantly fragmented, distributed and redundant, so that even if a whoel data center breaks down, the end users don't notice.
At the same time, this expense is hidden under smooth interfaces and almost un-noticeable response times. Thiss leaves users under the impression that what they do is light, imeediate, easy.

- is this necessary to run it like this?
- It warps out notion of expense, effort




# Notes/things to Mention in this article
- [elephant in the room letter by constant](https://constantvzw.org/wefts/elephant.en.html)
- software as a service sucks
- big tech companies are evil
- computers are pretty bad for the environment
- privacy, government surveillance
- cloud tools are expensive to run, but that expense is hidden from us by smooth interfaces and lightning fast connections.
- the less control we have about things, the less we know how they work, the more dependent we are on companies

- but we are also really dependent on cloud tools
- the cloud is just someone else's computer

- permacomputing: the problem goes beyond that, it 