# 1.2 What is self hosting

At this point it's probably good to explain what a [[0.2 Glossary of Terms#Server|server]] is in a few words. In very simple terms, a server is a computer that *serves* information to a user (or client) machine.

When you visit a website, somewhere in the world there is a computer that has the website stored on it—the server. When you enter the URL in your browser, you are being directed to this computer, and it will send you back, or *serve* you, the content of the website so that your computer can display it. Similarly, if you edit a Google Doc file with someone else, somewhere in the world there is a computer that has the content of this document saved on it. Every time you make a change it's sent to this server, which then sends (*serves*) the changes you just made to all the other users in real time, making sure everyone is always in sync.

When people say the cloud is just someone else's computer, this is what they mean: the cloud is just a bunch of servers. When we think of big tech companies like Google or Amazon, we think of large data centers that exist in specially designed buildings that use the energy equivalent of a small town. Th


But despite the level of complexity at hand here, it's important to realize


But these data centers routinely serve millions of people simultaneously.



For a smaller number of users the necessary infrastructure is surprisingly low-tech. An old laptop 



when people say the cloud is just someone else's computer, this is what they mean. The cloud is a bunch of servers.




we often think of data centers. But smaller amount of users, can just do it yourself (business scale vs. personal)




To sum this text up: If the cloud is just someone else's computer, it could be replaced by your own computer. Whether it's collaborative writing or spreadsheets, file sharing, video calling, shared calendars or email servers, even hosting websites—depending on the size of your operation it's probably possible to set up a small




In [net jargon](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Net_jargon "Net jargon"), a **server** is a [computer](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer "Computer") that serves many kinds of information to a [user](https://simple.wiktionary.org/wiki/user "wikt:user") or [client](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client "Client") machine. 

Usually a server will only do a few things for many clients. Every type of thing a server does is called a service. Services are used by other computers that are called clients. The relationship between client and server is called a [client-server](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client-server "Client-server") relationship. 

For example, [Wikipedia](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia "Wikipedia") has [web](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Website "Website") servers which have a service for sending web pages over the Internet. Your client computer talks to Wikipedia's web page service to get web pages for you. A server can also host [internet games](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_game "Video game"), [share files](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_server "File server"), and give access to [peripheral equipment](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peripheral_equipment "Peripheral equipment") such as printers. 

==In simple words, the individual computers are connected to some powerful computers called servers. These store files and information in the form of website. With an Internet connection, different users anywhere in the world can access these files.==




If the cloud is just someone else's computer, self hosting is saying why does it have to be someone else's computer, why can it not be my own computer.
- ethically there are a lot of advantages, as we have control over what, how, when where
- the trade off is effort: self hosting means doing a lot of things that, in the cloud, others do for us for free

Nothing is perfect: permacomputing, computing in gernal is not sustainable from an ecological point of view. But it could be (slightly) better

## 1.2.1 What are the benefits of Self Hosting?
- privacy
- some companies chose self hsoting over AWS etc, why?
- data security
- learning
- self sufficiency
- adaptability

## 1.2.2. What are the challenges of Self Hosting?
- it's a lot of work
- maintenance!
- probably need a dedicated person to use this in production (though not full time)

**it's important to recognize that this only seems laborious because the expense of these processes is intentionally hidden from us behind the smooth user interfaces of cloud services!**
- Working in the cloud is expensive (electricity, bandwidth, maintenance)
- Big corporations only make things seem frictionless
- This has warped out perception of what a seemless experience is

## 1.2.3 List of things that can be replaced by self hosting