## 3.1.1 Installing Linux
There are [[2.3 System Considerations|many different Linux distributions]], which all come with advantages and disadvantages. There is not really a blanket solution for which system you should chose. However, the best way to get into it is to just start, and learn along the way. 

For this guide we recommend installing [DietPi](https://dietpi.com/). Originally developed as an operating system for the Raspberry Pi, it now supports most Single Board Computers, as well as native PCs. It's very light-weight, meaning that it doesn't take much space and doesn't use a lot of resources like processing power and RAM, ensuring that it will run fine even on slower machines. If you prefer to use another Linux ditribution feel free to skip this section and continue at [[Hosthandleiding/content/3.1 Practical Guides and configs#3.1.2 Setting up SSH|3.1.2]].

### 3.1.1a Installing DietPi

> ℹ️ Much of this manual is taken from the official [DietPi Install Guide](https://dietpi.com/docs/install/), but it has been edited to accommodate a larger number of users.

In order to install DietPi you need a few things:

1. A **working computer** with internet access (from which to prepare the install)
2. An *empty or overwriteable* USB drive of minimum 2GB capacity (to install from)
3. A (non-Apple) [[2.2 Hardware Considerations|target computer]] on which you want to install DietPi. For this guide we will also assume that you have access to a screen and a keyboard as well (if you are using an old laptop, the internal screen and keyboard suffice).

> ⚠️ For now, this this guide will not include a tutorial on how to install Linux on an old Apple computer. You can read more about this [[2.2 Hardware Considerations#2.2.2a Apple|here]], but the TLDR; is that Apple has made it increasingly difficult to install anything except macOS on their machines. If an old Mac is all you got, there are many tutorial such as this one that you can follow and continue at [[Hosthandleiding/content/3.1 Practical Guides and configs#3.1.2 Setting up SSH|3.1.2]].


#### Downloading DietPi (SBC)
There are [many variations](https://dietpi.com/) of DietPi available on the official website, depending on what kind of machine you are planning to install it on. There are versions for most common [[0.2 Glossary of Terms#SBC (Single Board Computer)|SBCs (Single Board Computers)]], which is one of the main advantages of DietPi. If you are using an SBC, find the apropriate version of DietPi on their website and download it.

#### Dowloading DietPi for a native (non-SBC) PC
If you plan to install DietPi on a *regular* (non-SBC) computer like an old laptop, you first need to find out whether it's BIOS based or UEFI based. It's not really important to understand what this means in order to continue, it's just about downloading the correct installer.

##### Distinguishing UEFI/BIOS on Windows 11
Basically, if your computer is newer, chances are bigger that it's UEFI based. The older it is, the more likely it's BIOS based. If it runs Windows 11, you are running UEFI for sure since it doesn't support BIOS.

##### Distinguishing UEFI/BIOS on Windows 10 and older
If the computer you want to use is running a version of **Windows** older than Windows 11, you can check whether your machine is UEFI or BIOS based by pressing `⊞ Win` + `R` to open the Windows Run dialog, type in the command `msinfo32`, and then press `Enter`. This will open the System Infomation window. Find the entry `BIOS mode`. If it's set to `UEFI` you are using UEFI, if it's set to `Legacy` you are using BIOS.

##### Distinguishing UEFI/BIOS on Linux
If you are already running Linux, the easiest way to find out if you are running UEFI or BIOS is to check for a folder called /sys/firmware/efi. One way to do this is to open a terminal and to enter the command `ls /sys/firmware/efi`. If you are using BIOS, the folder will be missing. If the folder exists, you are running UEFI.

Once you know whether your computer is UEFI based or BIOS based, download the corresponding version from the [official website](https://dietpi.com/) to your **working computer**.

#### Extracting the image
The file you downloaded in one of the previous steps is packaged in a 7z archive, which you need to extract first. Functionally, this is similar to a .zip or .rar file. You might need to download additional software in order to extract the archive.

##### Extracting 7z on Windows or macOS
If your **working computer** runs **Windows** you can use [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/).

If your **working computer** runs **macOS** you can use [The Unarchiver](https://wakaba.c3.cx/s/apps/unarchiver.html). 

##### Extracting 7z on Linux
If your **working computer** runs **Linux** you can use p7zip, the command line version of 7-Zip. On Debian and Ubuntu-based systems, you can simply open a terminal and type:

```
$ sudo apt install p7zip
```

Once p7zip is installed, navigate to the downloaded file and type the following to extract it:

```
$ 7zr x PUTYOURFILENAMEHERE
```

Replace **PUTYOURFILENAMEHERE** with the correct name of the downloaded archive, e.g. **DietPi_RPi-ARMv6-Bullseye.7z**. This will extract the DietPi image file for you to use.

After all of this you should be left with an *image file*. If you don't know what this means, just make sure you have a file that ends with `.iso`.

#### Flashing the Image
We now want to take this image file, and put it on a flash drive like a USB stick or SD card, which we can then use to install Linux. This process is called *flashing*.

#### Flashing if your target computer is an SBC
There are several tools to do this. If your **target computer** is a single board computer, or a native PC that's BIOS-based, the easiest way is probably [balenaEtcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/), which is free and available for Windows, macOS and Linux. 

It's pretty straight foward: after downloading balenaEtcher to your **working computer**, plug in your flash drive and open balenaEtcher. Select `Flash from File`, then locate the installer image you extracted in the previous step (it should be an `.iso` file). Then select your flash drive as a target and click `Flash!`

> ⚠️ This will erase all the data on the selected target. Double check if you have selected the correct target drive and if there are **really** no files on there that you don't want to lose.

#### Flashing if your target computer is a native PC
If your target computer is a BIOS-based native PC, you can use balenaEtcher as explained in the previous step. However, if your target computer is UEFI-based, things are slightly more complicated.

##### Flashing the USB on Windows
If your working computer is running **Windows**, you can use the free tool [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/en/). There is a portable version of Rufus, which you can download and run directly without installing it first. Then plug in your flash drive, and follow these steps:

1.  Select the USB device
2.  Select the downloaded **DietPi** image
3.  Select **GPT** as partition scheme
4.  Select **UEFI** as target system
5.  Click on **Start** button

> ⚠️ This will erase all the data on the selected target. Double check if you have selected the correct target drive and if there are **really** no files on there that you don't want to lose.

##### Flashing the USB on Linux

==how to flash a USB from osx/linux?==




#### Installing DietPi
Once your flash drive is ...flashed, your **working computer** has done it's job and we will start working with your **target computer**.

Start by plugging your flashed flash drive into your **target computer**. If you are using an external screen and keyboard for this installation, plug them in as well. Then [[0.2 Glossary of Terms#Booting|boot up]] the **target computer**.

If your **target computer** currently has a running operating system, you might be presented with a prompt asking you to select a boot device. This just means that you should select from where the computer should take take the operating system that it is about to start running—in this case you should identify and (using the arrow keys) select the flash drive you just prepared, then press `ENTER`.

You should be presented with a neon-green dialogue asking you to select the version of DietPi you wish to install. Unless you are experiencing any issues during this step, select *Default Settings*.

Follow the on-screen instructions for the rest of the install. It will ask you to select your keyboard layout, and the source for the install (you should only see one possible source if you followed this guide up to here—It should start with `DietPi_` and continue with the version of DietPi you downloaded in the beginning of the tutorial). 

Next you will be asked to select the hard drive that you want to install DietPi on. In many cases you will only see one option here, in case your target computer has multiple hard drives installed, pick the most [[2.2 Hardware Considerations#2.2.2c Storage|appropriate]] one.

> ⚠️ This will erase all the data on the selected hard drive, so this is a last warning to be sure that you actually want to erase this drive!

After this, the install should begin. This might take some time. When it's done, the system should shut down by itself.

#### Running DietPi for the first time
To run DietPi, simply unplug the your flash drive you used for installing DietPi, and turn on the machine. 

==continue here==

## 3.1.2 Setting up SSH

## 3.1.3 Setting up Docker
### 3.1.3a Install Docker
### 3.1.3b Set up a Docker Network

## 3.1.4 Setting up a Reverse Proxy

## 3.1.5 Connecting a domain
### 3.1.5a Buying a domain
### 3.1.5b Connect your reverse proxy to your domain provider