# Wednesday, 23.06.22

## 11:01, Lukas

I went back into the Etherpad installation, and started going over the settings. When in the docker folder, we can edit the settings.json file. I started by changing the default password and user of the database to

```
designdepartmentpad
Decolonize!
```

This is also how we modify the pad, so It's something nice to dive into. Afterwards we can apply the changes by rebuilding the application with

``` bash
$ docker-compose build
```

We should definitely dive into the details of this at some point (It would be great to have VScode installed to do this!)

## 11:25, Lukas

I am installing a wiki now where to start documenting how the server works. I checked what they recommend at [linuxserver.io](https://docs.linuxserver.io/general/awesome-lsio#wiki), and settled on Raneto for now. It's static and uses markdown, so it's super lightweight and straight forward, plus it doesn't use a database. I also liked bookstack, but felt it was too complicated for what we need. I *loved* Hedgedoc actually, but it would be a better replacement for something like Etherpad, since it misses the whole organization/folder structure element.

Install is super easy, we just copy the docker-compose file from the [repo](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-raneto/), adapt the settings and build it.

```yaml
---
version: "2.1"
services:
  raneto:
    image: lscr.io/linuxserver/raneto:latest
    container_name: raneto
    environment:
      - PUID=1000
      - PGID=1000
      - TZ=Europe/Amsterdam
    volumes:
      - /var/apps/raneto:/config
    ports:
      - 3000:3000
    restart: unless-stopped
    networks:
      - theStack
networks:
  theStack:
    external: yes
```

I changed the data drive to /var/apps/raneto, which is where swag also saves it's app data. I added it to the theStack network as well. Lastly I only changed the timezone to Amsterdam. This seems to work great. However I didn't realize that Raneto doesn't have a backend, meaning it will only display the markdown files that are physically on the server. I guess this is not a problem if we install VSCode as well.

In order to change any settings, we have to edit the `config.default.js` file in the folder where we saved the app data, and restart the docker container. I basically left everything the same but changed the user name/password, and changed it so that you need to log in, also in order to read the documentation, since I plan to have passwords in this documentation.

```
designdepartment
Decolonize!
```

I am now adding a new config file for SWAG. As before, I do this by navigating into the app-data directory, and looking for the proxy-confs folder. In my case that's `/var/apps/swag/nginx/proxy-confs`. Here I copy the config from last time, and edit it slightly like so:

```
server {
    server_name wiki.*;

    listen 443 ssl;
    listen [::]:443 ssl; # managed by Certbot

    include /config/nginx/ssl.conf;
    client_max_body_size 0;

    error_log /var/log/nginx/wiki.sandberginstitute.design-error.log;
    location / {
        include /config/nginx/proxy.conf;
        resolver 127.0.0.11 valid=30s;
        set $upstream_app raneto;
        set $upstream_port 3000;
        set $upstream_proto http;
        proxy_pass $upstream_proto://$upstream_app:$upstream_port;
    }
}
```

Lastly, I had to navigate to the docker SWAG folder, and edit the docker-compose file to include the `wiki` subdomain. Then I restarted the swag docker container, and it works!



















The next steps would be:

- I don't want etherpad to be available on port 9001 publicly, but only internally.
  - ***jan kees?***
- **This should run over the pub server (port forwarding)**
- **I would like to get some kind of ftp server to run**
- How to get the autoplay script to work not as ssh? display configuration etc
  - ***jan kees?***
  - also: add to the script that it only takes video files in the right size
  - documentation, and include the mask image for people to put over the video
- Make a list of tasks for the working group
  - suggest styling the pad
  - write documentation
  - uploading videos
  - adding services, show how!
  - **write anja**
- install the server at sandberg!!
- (connect a NAS to it?)