# Monday, 27.06.22

## 18:54, Lukas

Met with Jan Kees today, he will make the Apache config on the pub server to forward traffic to the Pi. I set up autossh with the command:

``` bash
$ autossh -M 19444 -o "PubkeyAuthentication=yes" -fNR 19443:localhost:443 si &
```

And I pointed the A record for this domain to the pub server instead of my home address. Jan Kees said he will try to get this to work tomorrow. I emailed him the certificates that SWAG generated for my subdomains. There are no wild card certificates or apache configs though I believe, so all new subdomains will have to go through Jan Kees.





## The next steps would be:

- restarting issue:
  - after rebooting i have to restart the docker-containers for swag and etherpad
  - **also make script that runs autossh on boot**

- I don't want etherpad to be available on port 9001 publicly, but only internally.
  - **jan kees**
- I would like to get some kind of ftp server to run
- How to get the autoplay script to work not as ssh? display configuration etc
  - **jan kees**
  - also: add to the script that it only takes video files in the right size
  - documentation, and include the mask image for people to put over the video
  - jan kees says: don't use vlc, use mplayer, or better **omxplayer**!
- Make a list of tasks for the working group
  - suggest styling the pad
  - write documentation
  - uploading videos
  - adding services, show how!
  - **write anja**
- install the server at sandberg!!
- get a usb stick for all read/write data
  - make sure all docker containers run from there
  - then set the SD card to read only (can be done from GUI)
- (connect a NAS to it?)