# Monday, 25.04.22

## 10:56, Lukas

I finally connected the fan! Last week, when using the GUI and working the cloud with another user, I realized that the Ordoid got crazy warm. So I finally went and connected the fan. I found an old forum entry of someone doing this, and explaining the process: <https://forum.odroid.com/viewtopic.php?f=171&t=36030>

In order to connect the fan I had to get a JST P4 GH connector (Japanese Solderless Terminal, 4 Pin, 1.25mm pitch, or distance between pitch) and connect the cables to the fans connector. Luckily the person from the forum included images which I could just match since my connector had different colors. For me it was:

```
Blue -> Green
Green -> Yellow
Yellow -> Black
Black -> Red
```

Then it was just a matter of rebooting and [entering the BIOS](https://wiki.odroid.com/odroid-h2/start#entering_bios_menu) and changing the fan speed. This however didn't really seem to work. I checked this by installing the libraries stress and sensors and ran

```
$ stress --cpu 8 --io 4 --vm 2 --vm-bytes 128M --timeout 10s
$ sensors
```

The CPU went up to 80 Celsius but the fan never changed speed. I suspect that is because it's a 12V fan in a 5V connector. I will ask Jan Kees if maybe it's possible to draw power from one of the SATA ports, which is what someone in the forum suggested.

## 14:44, Lukas

Met with Jan Kees today and asked him some questions.

I finally figured out how to do the SSH forwarding, basically it was already set up. I thought that on the Pub server you need a reverse proxy like Apache, which forwards the incoming traffic (on port 443) to a localhost port, which is the reverse tunnnel to my server. But I can just SSH into the pub server and then go 

```
$ ssh pleb@localhost -p 18000
```

or whatever port I want. And then of course I could make that even slicker by setting up a config file.

We also discussed the (still shaky) crontab for autossh I set up. This reminded me that there is a second autossh script that Jan Kees wrote somewhere which includes more arguments, like keepaliveinterval i think. This might solve the problem. However, since I am running a bash script anyway, I could also do something where it first checks the outcome of the autossh script, and if it doesn't connect, I could kill the process and start it again. He said this is most likely due to a stuck port.

We also briefly talked about connecting to Ethernet in the department, but he said it's probably not possible and to just go with Wifi. The wifi here is really fast so it wouldn't be much of a performance tax.

I asked him about the backup app I am using. He advised to abandon Deja Dup and go sys admin style. This means using an app like rsync, figure out the correct flags by testing with a folder locally and then set up a cron tab to execute a script ever x hours. He advised to look at examples online. He usually uses

```
# not the correct syntax, just to remember the flags.
# a: archive
# v: (verbose) would be removed when deploying, but would be for testing
# z: compressionq
$ rsync -avz
```

Lastly we talked about the fan. I asked if I could just connect to the 12V+ SATA connector, he said it's pretty fool proof. Well he made the calculation without me: I think I broke the computer. It doesn't turn on anymore or light up. Fuck.

## 20:11, Lukas

Just to confirm, I broke the computer. I will have to find a replacement. This sucks.